gRPC Project
============

This project contains the interfaces for a web service based on gRPC.
Information about how gRPC interface supports TOSCA can be found
`here`_.

How to install:
---------------

For gRPC interface, add to your ``pom.xml`` (in the project this part is
already present):

::

      <dependency>
        <groupId>io.grpc</groupId>
        <artifactId>grpc-netty</artifactId>
        <version>${grpc.version}</version>
      </dependency>
      <dependency>
        <groupId>io.grpc</groupId>
        <artifactId>grpc-protobuf</artifactId>
        <version>${grpc.version}</version>
      </dependency>
      <dependency>
        <groupId>io.grpc</groupId>
        <artifactId>grpc-stub</artifactId>
        <version>${grpc.version}</version>
      </dependency>

For protobuf-based codegen integrated with the Maven build system, you
can use protobuf-maven-plugin :

::

      <build>
        <extensions>
          <extension>
            <groupId>kr.motd.maven</groupId>
            <artifactId>os-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>1.4.1.Final</version>
          </extension>
        </extensions>
        <plugins>
          <plugin>
            <groupId>org.xolstice.maven.plugins</groupId>
            <artifactId>protobuf-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>0.5.0</version>
            <configuration>
              <protocArtifact>com.google.protobuf:protoc:3.1.0:exe:${os.detected.classifier}</protocArtifact>
              <pluginId>grpc-java</pluginId>
              <pluginArtifact>io.grpc:protoc-gen-grpc-java:${grpc.version}:exe:${os.detected.classifier}</pluginArtifact>
            </configuration>
            <executions>
              <execution>
                <goals>
                  <goal>compile</goal>
                  <goal>compile-custom</goal>
                </goals>
              </execution>
            </executions>
          </plugin>
        </plugins>
      </build>

Due to the fact that the project is intended for Eclipse, you need to
install an additional Eclipse plugin because `m2e`_ does not evaluate
the extension specified in a ``pom.xml``. `Download
``os-maven-plugin-1.5.0.Final.jar```_ and put it into the
``<ECLIPSE_HOME>/plugins`` directory. (As you might have noticed,
``os-maven-plugin`` is a Maven extension, a Maven plugin, and an Eclipse
plugin.)

If you are using IntelliJ IDEA, you should not have any problem.

If you are using other IDEs such as NetBeans, you need to set the system
properties ``os-maven-plugin`` sets manually when your IDE is launched.
You usually use JVM’s ``-D`` flags like the following:

    -Dos.detected.name=linux -Dos.detected.arch=x86_64
    -Dos.detected.classifier=linux-x86_64
    

.. _here: https://github.com/netgroup-polito/verigraph/blob/master/README_TOSCA.rst
.. _m2e: https://www.eclipse.org/m2e/
.. _Download ``os-maven-plugin-1.5.0.Final.jar``: http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/kr/motd/maven/os-maven-plugin/1.5.0.Final/os-maven-plugin-1.5.0.Final.jar


Included files:
---------------

Here you can find a brief description about useful files for the gRPC
interface:

**src/main/java:**
-  *it.polito.grpc:*

This package includes 2 classes that represent the client and server.
>\ **Client.java:**

    Client of gRPC application. It implements all possible methods
    necessary for communicate with server. It prints out the received
    response. Moreover it provides some static methods that are used for
    creating the instances of requests.

..

    **Service.java:**

    Server of gRPC application. It implements all possible methods
    necessary for communicate with client. It saves the received request
    on log. This server could be accessed by multiple clients, because
    synchronizes concurrent accesses. Each method that is possible to
    call is has the equivalent operation in REST-interface.

..

    **GrpcUtils.java:**

    This class provides some static methods that are used by
    ``Service.java`` in order to translate a request into a class that
    is accepted by Verigraph. Other methods are used to translate the
    class of Verigraph in the proper gRPC response. These
    functionalities are exploited by test classes. Furthermore this set
    of methods is public, so in your application you could call them,
    even if this should not be useful because ``Client.java`` provides
    other high-level functions.

-  *it.polito.grpc.test:*

This package includes classes for testing the gRPC application.

    **GrpcServerTest.java:**

..

    For each possible method we test if works correctly. We create a
    fake client (so this test doesn’t use the method that are present in
    client class) and test if it receives the expected response. In a
    nutshell, it tests the methods of Client in case of a fake server.
    Please notice that the test prints some errors but this is
    intentional, because the program tests also error case. Indeed, not
    all methods are tested, because we have another class
    (ReachabilityTest.java) that is specialized for testing the
    verification method.

    **GrpcTest.java:**

..

    This set of tests is intended to control the most common use cases,
    in particular all methods that are callable in Client and Service
    class, apart from verifyPolicy for the same reason as before. It
    tries also to raise an exception and verify if the behavior is as
    expected.

    **MultiThreadTest.java:**

..

    This test creates multiple clients that connect to the server and
    verify is the result is correct. These methods test the
    synchronization on server-side.

    **ReachabilityTest.java:**

..

    This file tests the verification method, it exploits the test case
    already present in the project and consequently has the certainty of
    testing not so simple case. In particular it reads the file in
    “src/main/webapp/json” and use this as starting point. Some
    exceptions are thrown in order to verify if they are handled in a
    correct way.

**src/main/proto:**

    **verigraph.proto:**

..

    File containing the description of the service. This includes the
    definition of all classes used in the application. Moreover contains
    the definition of the methods that is possible to call. Each
    possible method call by REST API is mapped on a proper gRPC method.
    In case of error a message containing the reason is returned to the client.
    More details are available in the section about Proto Buffer.
    **taget/generated-sources/protobuf/java:**

-  *io.grpc.verigraph:*

This package includes all classes generated from verigraph.proto by
means of protoc. For each object you can find 2 classes :

    **{NameObject}Grpc.java**

..

    **{NameObject}GrpcOrBuilder.java**

    The first is the real implementation, the second is the interface.

**taget/generated-sources/protobuf/grpc-java:**

-  *io.grpc.verigraph:*

This package includes a single class generated from verigraph.proto by
means of protoc.

    **VerigraphGrpc.java:**

..

    This is useful in order to create the stubs that are necessary to
    communicate both for client and server.

**lib:**

This folder includes a jar used for compiling the project with Ant.

    **maven-ant-tasks-2.1.3.jar:**

..

    This file is used by build.xml in order to include the maven
    dependencies.

**pom.xml:**

Modified in order to add all necessary dependencies. It contains also
the build tag used for create the generated-sources folders. This part
is added according to documentation of gRPC for java as explained above
in How To Install section. For further clarification go to `this link`_.

**build.xml:**

This ant file permit to run and compile the program in a simple way, it
exploits the maven-ant-tasks-2.1.3.jar already present in project.

.. _this link: https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/README.md
It contains 3 fundamental tasks for gRPC interface: - **build:** compile
the program

-  **run:** run both client and server

-  **run-client :** run only client

-  **run-server :** run only server

-  **run-test :** launch all tests that are present in the package,
   prints out the partial results and global result.

Note that the execution of these tests may take up to 1-2 minutes when
successful, according to your computer architecture.

More Information About Proto Buffer:
------------------------------------

Further clarification about verigraph.proto:

-  A ``simple RPC`` where the client sends a request to the server using
   the stub and waits for a response to come back, just like a normal
   function call.

   .. code:: xml

       // Obtains a graph
       rpc GetGraph (RequestID) returns (GraphGrpc) {}

In this case we send a request that contains the id of the graph and the
response is a Graph.

-  A ``server-side streaming RPC`` where the client sends a request to
   the server and gets a stream to read a sequence of messages back. The
   client reads from the returned stream until there are no more
   messages. As you can see in our example, you specify a server-side
   streaming method by placing the stream keyword before the response
   type.

   .. code:: xml


       // Obtains a list of Nodes
       rpc GetNodes (RequestID) returns (stream NodeGrpc) {}

In this case we send a request that contains the id of the graph and the
response is a list of Nodes that are inside graph.

Further possibilities are available but in this project are not
expolied. If you are curious see `here`_.

Our ``.proto`` file also contains protocol buffer message type
definitions for all the request and response types used in our service
methods - for example, heres the ``RequestID`` message type:

.. code:: xml

      message RequestID {
        int64 idGraph = 1;
        int64 idNode = 2;
        int64 idNeighbour = 3;
      }

.. _here: http://www.grpc.io/docs/tutorials/basic/java.html#defining-the-service

The " = 1“,” = 2" markers on each element identify the unique “tag” that
field uses in the binary encoding. Tag numbers 1-15 require one less
byte to encode than higher numbers, so as an optimization you can decide
to use those tags for the commonly used or repeated elements, leaving
tags 16 and higher for less-commonly used optional elements. Each
element in a repeated field requires re-encoding the tag number, so
repeated fields are particularly good candidates for this optimization.

Protocol buffers are the flexible, efficient, automated solution to
solve exactly the problem of serialization. With protocol buffers, you
write a .proto description of the data structure you wish to store. From
that, the protocol buffer compiler creates a class that implements
automatic encoding and parsing of the protocol buffer data with an
efficient binary format. The generated class provides getters and
setters for the fields that make up a protocol buffer and takes care of
the details of reading and writing the protocol buffer as a unit.
Importantly, the protocol buffer format supports the idea of extending
the format over time in such a way that the code can still read data
encoded with the old format.

syntax = “proto3”;

package verigraph;

option java_multiple_files = true; option java_package =
“io.grpc.verigraph”; option java_outer_classname = “VerigraphProto”;
\``\` This .proto file works for protobuf 3, that is slightly different
from the version 2, so be careful if you have code already installed.

The .proto file starts with a package declaration, which helps to
prevent naming conflicts between different projects. In Java, the
package name is used as the ``Java package`` unless you have explicitly
specified a java_package, as we have here. Even if you do provide a
``java_package``, you should still define a normal ``package`` as well
to avoid name collisions in the Protocol Buffers name space as well as
in non-Java languages.

After the package declaration, you can see two options that are
Java-specific: ``java_package`` and ``java_outer_classname``.
``java_package`` specifies in what Java package name your generated
classes should live. If you don’t specify this explicitly, it simply
matches the package name given by the package declaration, but these
names usually aren’t appropriate Java package names (since they usually
don’t start with a domain name). The ``java_outer_classname`` option
defines the class name which should contain all of the classes in this
file. If you don’t give a ``java_outer_classname explicitly``, it will
be generated by converting the file name to camel case. For example,
“my_proto.proto” would, by default, use “MyProto” as the outer class
name. In this case this file is not generated, because
``java_multiple_files`` option is true, so for each message we generate
a different class.

For further clarifications see `here`_

.. _here: https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/javatutorial
Notes
-----

For gRPC interface you need that neo4jmanager service is already
deployed, so if this is not the case, please follow the instructions at
this `link`_.

In this version there are some modified files compared to the original
`Verigraph project`_

**it.polito.escape.verify.service.NodeService:**

At line 213 we modified the path, because this service is intended to
run not only in container, as Tomcat, so we added other possibility that
files is placed in src/main/webapp/json/ folder.

**it.polito.escape.verify.service.VerificationService:**

In the original case it searches for python files in “webapps” folder,
that is present if the service is deployed in a container, but absent
otherwise. So we added another string that will be used in the case the
service doesn’t run in Tomcat.

**it.polito.escape.verify.databese.DatabaseClass:**

Like before we added the possibility that files are not in “webapps”
folder, so is modified in order to run in any environment. Modification
in method loadDataBase() and persistDatabase().

Pay attention that Python is needed for the project. If it is not
already present on your computer, please `download it`_. It works fine
with Python 2.7.3, or in general Python 2.

If you have downloaded a Python version for 64-bit architecture please
copy the files in “service/z3_64” and paste in “service/build” and
substitute them, because this project works with Python for 32-bit
architecture.

Python and Z3 must support the same architecture.

Moreover you need the following dependencies installed on your python
distribution:

 “requests” python package ->
http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/

 “jsonschema” python package -> https://pypi.python.org/pypi/jsonschema

HINT - to install a package you can raise the following command (Bash on
Linux or DOS shell on Windows): python -m pip install jsonschema python
-m pip install requests Pay attention that it is possible that you have
to modify the PATH environment variable because is necessary to address
the python folder, used for verification phase.

Remember to read the `README.rtf`_ and to follow the instructions in
order to deploy the Verigraph service.

In the latest version of Maven there is the possibility that the
downloaded files are incompatible with Java Version of the project
(1.8). In this case you have to modify the file
``hk2-parent-2.4.0-b31.pom`` under your local Maven repository (e.g.
‘C::raw-latex:`\Users`:raw-latex:`\Standard`.m2:raw-latex:`\repository`’)
and in the path ``\org\glassfish\hk2\hk2-parent\2.4.0-b31`` find the
file and modify at line 1098 (in section ``profile``) the ``jdk``
version to ``[1.8,)`` .

Admittedly, the version that is supported by the downloaded files from
Maven Dependencies is incompatible with jdk of the project. So modify
the file ``gson-2.3.pom`` in Maven repository, under
``com\google\code\gson\gson\2.3`` directory, in particular line 91, from
``[1.8,`` to ``[1.8,)``.

This project was also tested on Linux Ubuntu 15.10.

.. _link: https://github.com/netgroup-polito/verigraph/blob/master/README.rst
.. _Verigraph project: https://github.com/netgroup-polito/verigraph
.. _download it: https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7.3/
.. _README.rtf: https://github.com/netgroup-polito/verigraph/blob/master/README.rst